what is up my ladies and gentlemens
welcome to the wan show we are gonna
have a fantastic show for you today
apple has a new 13-inch macbook what
apple making another macbook i thought
they didn't even care about macbooks
anymore i thought they just wanted to
make airpods
it actually it does look all right it
does look alright alright amd this is
really this is the big story this week
amd not supporting zen 3 on older
motherboards why are they doing this
well why would they hurt everyone maybe
maybe they just lived long enough to
become the villain as the title of the
video today seems to suggest it is uh
obviously a little bit more nuanced than
that what else we got just a little bit
xbox series x gameplay reveal
temporarily taken down i i don't know
about that part it's definitely back up
at this point emits backlash over uh
lack of almost any gameplay and i
watched it and that is true there is
probably seconds worth of gameplay
across a 30 minute video i'm excited to
hear about that what else we got
and amd releases ryzen 3 3rd gen okay
that's cheating anthony should not get
his points for putting this topic in the
wan show doc because he was the one who
wrote the review that we did so all he
had to do was take his notes and copy
paste them in
look at this brilliant look at this
source three us
[Laughter]
video like i'm gonna watch like i'm
gonna watch a linus tech tips video
to like talk about it on the lan show
what we need written articles for you
know what i've had enough of your crap
anthony i'm rolling that intro
that's awesome
oh man
what a nerd
cause you know he knows what he's doing
you know
you knew what you were doing
someone asked is this pre-recorded yeah
this is our fourth one of the day so
yeah
yeah they're all pre-recorded it's like
we pre-record them so hard they're more
like post recorded
you know like that's that's my new i'm
gonna be like post malone this is post
when you know it's like the next level
when
the the end times of when all right why
don't we jump right into our first big
topic for the day and this is already
causing big waves in the tech community
there's already a thread on the forum
that is so this was originally posted 12
hours ago by nk 1987. it's a good year
1987. not quite as good a year as the
one before it but
decent decent year um
and k 1987 says that uh
hardware unboxed asked the question
specifically and amd seemed to have
replied that all future ajisa code for
zen 3
will not support anything but 5xx series
motherboards this doesn't seem to be
like in the past when vendors have added
support for a320 boards but more like
when amd updated the agiza to lock out
pci express 4 on x470 boards so there is
a huge mixture of reaction all the way
from people expressing their frustration
to people
defending amd's position here
let's go ahead and give you guys sort of
the very short version of the notes here
so zen 3 is the upcoming amd ryzen 4000
series processors that is the desktop
ones 4000 series processors on mobile
are in fact zen 2. confused yet i don't
blame you
uh hey look at that we've got a
compatibility matrix wow
wonderful work luke it's kind of cut off
but actually sort of may be useful
um you know what yeah oh wow
oh wow that's spectacular
you know what it's it's great you know
what you try harder i love it so zen
three zen three is amd's upcoming
architecture that we're gonna find in
their desktop 4000 series processors and
it sounds at least from amd's hints and
teasing like it is going to be a very
significant upgrade like people are
expecting this to be the one where they
go from being really competitive with
intel cpu offerings but at very
compelling prices and with a with a core
count advantage where if you happen to
um you know
have a workload that takes advantage of
more cores then it'll be more performant
but if you're a raw gamer you're
probably better off sticking with intel
um we're going to go from that situation
to
that you know the feeling we're getting
is amd leapfrogging intel in a
significant way where across the board
they are going to be
the performance leader and so there's a
lot of people out there with amd
motherboards based on amd's um guidance
so far and based on their attitude so
far towards oh wow i'm accidentally
streaming at 60fps well there you go i
had meant to set it to 30. based on
amd's attitude so far towards backwards
and forwards compatibility between their
motherboard chipsets and their cpus
um there's people out there that are
sitting there with amd motherboards like
yeah i'm gonna upgrade to i'm gonna
upgrade to zen3 i'm going ryzen 4000
series as soon as this thing drops boom
you will
not
so
it looks like zen 3 will only be
supported on b550 and x560 or x570
excuse me which means that unless you
bought a new motherboard to go with your
zen
zen 2
ryzen 3000 series so third gen
um
processor you are going to be plumb out
of luck the farthest you're going to be
able to go is
verizon 3rd gen people seem to be pretty
annoyed but in fairness to amd let's
have a look at how long am4 has been
going strong it was announced in 2016
delivered in early 2017
and they are actually still releasing
processors for this platform and as long
as your older motherboard did get a bios
update from the manufacturer to support
these new chips there are people out
there running very early boards with
very new cpus and what's really cool
about having that option is that it
means that if you are not the kind of
person who has a ton of money all right
you bought a board back over three years
ago three and a half years ago you
bought a motherboard you said look i'm
betting on amd
and you would have gotten you know what
was uh what was like a good chip back
then you know maybe you picked yourself
up a ryzen a ryzen 1600 all right so
let's have a look at why am i in french
by default here
alright so the ryzen 5
1600 processor here's the specifications
i'm gonna pull this up i can't show it
to you guys but whatever it's got six
cores all right maximum boost frequency
up to 3.6 gigahertz it had like a decent
um oh wow you've got there's two linuses
now thanks luke uh okay so that's you
know decent boost frequency you had
decent ipc base frequency 3.2 and it had
12 threads okay that was that was a
great value
but
zen 2 is so much faster that if you were
to run out and go on newegg.com
and uh let's let's have a look ryzen
for a hundred and sixty-eight dollars
you could move to six cores of 3.4
gigahertz space 3.9 gigahertz boost
much faster ipc like this is a way
better processor for 168 bucks plus you
can probably flip your 1600x okay so
ebay.com here suckers let's have a look
so verizon 1600 oh did i say sorry 1600
non 1600 1600 non-x okay so that thing
is still worth
looks like about a hundred bucks
on ebay all right anywhere from 100 to
so over a span of three and a half years
you could have gone from what was pretty
competitive back then to like cutting
edge now for
the difference between these you know
200 bucks or whatever
that's looking pretty good to me for for
a cpu upgrade path
and this is gen like i know i know he's
he's mentioned this a couple times but
this has actually been a really long
amount of time of compatibility and they
have already held back certain features
due to trying to keep this platform
going for a longer period of time
oh
so the like super enthusiasts should
kind of want this to a certain degree
anyways
with that said i want to play
i want to play devil's advocate to
myself here
and say um compared to what intel does
is amd
really out ahead by that much because
that's intel's uh that's intel's game
right so every every motherboard every
new motherboard chipset launches with a
new cpu and then you get like one cpu
upgrade there was actually one case
where we got uh where we got two it was
the uh what was it devil's canyon
refresh or something like that
so where uh you had the 3770k the 4770k
and then the 4790k was like sort of a
sort of an upgrade for it but it
realistically it was just like a tweaked
4770k but if you kind of go and look
back at it okay we got zen we got zen
plus which was a bigger tweak than
devil's canyon for sure and then we got
zen two on those motherboards we only
really got
two full
cpu refreshes we got like
two and a half kind of thing and that is
better than intel but if you look at
their threadripper platform
it was the same thing right we got a new
we actually got a new socket with the
third gen threadripper so they only
managed to do two generations on that
one and then we actually i don't know if
we know if uh trx
for
our str x4 socket trx4 is getting i
think i think it is probably getting
another generation i don't know if
that's actually formally confirmed so
don't take take all of this from for the
ignorant ramblings that it is but
i think there's a couple of things we
have to acknowledge here one is kudos to
amd for
making a good effort here because one
difference is that even though they only
managed two and a half
hey they managed two and a half and
through the work of their board partners
updating their bios's there are people
out there who really did get three and a
half years worth of upgrades on a
motherboard that's freaking awesome
number two is that by keeping
the same am4 socket
even though the chipset compatibility is
a little bit dicier they are creating a
lot of confusion in their lineup
something that i have heard cited as a
reason that intel does not do this they
don't want confusion in the lineup if
you buy this and you buy this it will
work
that simple um so amd has taken that
risk they have taken the risk of
creating confusion in their lineup to
have
as good of intercompatibility as they
possibly can and what's neat is that
instead of going okay i've got a cpu and
a motherboard and then in two years they
will both be complete dead-end platforms
at least if you were to upgrade let's
say you bought your original motherboard
back three and a half years ago and you
were to upgrade your motherboard today
in preparation for zen three right you
go get an x570 or a b550 board well now
you can have third gen and then probably
maybe something else after that we've
got this overlap between the motherboard
and cpu compatibility so that at least
if you buy two things
the odds of both of them becoming a dead
end at the same time
is lower and as an upgrader as someone
who frequently over the years would
would upgrade my computer piecemeal
that's something that's very appealing
to me you know i've got a motherboard i
already like i'll grab a new cpu you
know what i don't need a new cpu today
this is enough performance for me but i
want some new motherboard features that
are super sexy go get a new motherboard
that's a pretty cool way for an
enthusiast to move their system forward
do you think that's that common these
days
no
and that's another one of the big
reasons that um intel
that i've heard off the record from
you know
citation needed sources at intel uh
that's one of the big reasons that i've
heard for them to
not really pursue it as hard so it
creates a ton of confusion it creates a
ton of customer angst like i experienced
it for the first time personally
the the bios intercompatibility issues
with am4 motherboards that can arise and
be very very frustrating like um i was
building a system last week
and i built the whole thing up i water
cooled it should have should have
post-tested it before i actually
water-cooled it but whatever you know
you live and learn or you just live one
way or the other
yep okay i boot the thing up and no post
and there's no indication right it's not
like it makes a special beep code when
you install an incompatible cpu it just
like the power flicked on for a second
and then off and then on and then off
and then it looked like just kind of a
standard uh post fail right
and i was like fortunately i am tech
savvy enough and i have access to a
warehouse full of cpus 20 minutes away
that i was able to go oh you know what
it's probably a bios compatibility issue
and i ran over to the warehouse grabbed
a ryzen 1600 or 2600 or something like
that popped it in there yep sure enough
it fires right up flash the bios put my
third gen uh 3900x back in there and
we're off to the races
but i can see why a company might shy
away from that as a user experience
because a lot of your brand as a company
is built on how people feel when they
buy and use your product and that was
not a good user experience that's the
cold hard truth of it and i will confess
i did not fully and properly understand
the problem with amd's biocenter
compatibility problems so i was using a
b450 board with a ryzen 3rd gen and my
logic based on you know the 15 years or
whatever i've been into this stuff was
hey it's been so long since the b450 and
ryzen 3rd gen launches
that they should be
out of the box compatible by now
i don't have to worry about doing a bios
update in order to run this chip
that is straight up not how it works so
part of the reason for them dropping the
compatibility now and part of the reason
that the compatibility is so messy
is that the uh the flash chips so the
rom chips on these motherboards cannot
hold enough data to have all the code
that they need to be compatible with
every cpu that could feasibly be plugged
into it and it's like oh
yeah
that makes so much physical limitations
yeah these are physical limitations
so
we've actually seen compromises be made
so the board that i was using was nasroc
board you have to go on asrock's website
and it specifically says download this
version of the new bios if you're
running one of these cpus download this
one if you're running these cpus that's
that's a that's a bad user experience i
mean i went through i went through
trying to get my grandparents set up
with an ipad over the phone last weekend
and like
obviously that's a pretty extreme
example it took like four hours um
well it's like little things like they
didn't know their wi-fi password because
why would they they don't have any like
wi-fi devices and then they're tell us i
was like okay we need to look at the
telus box well they have two telus boxes
stacked on top of each other so you know
that was a stumbling block uh their imac
is so old that um browser support has
been dropped
from almost every major browser there's
some kind of firefox clone it's like
icefox or something like that arctic fox
that will still run on it but they
didn't have that installed so even
accessing their routers
uh even accessing their router's ui to
log in as an admin the login button was
just not there so i'm like i'm like
telling my grandpa over the phone i'm
like
just click the login button he's like
there's no login button i'm like no i'm
looking at like screenshots on on google
of like where the login button is you're
everything else about this page that
you're describing to me is right click
the login button he's like it's not
there
random random pro tip i would recommend
uh
and i've used this when when trying to
help my grandpa with something set up
with teamviewer before you send it to
him
it
if you can get them to get teamviewer
going which is
potentially a whole different issue yeah
i could not have them on wi-fi
this is actually how i got them to the
point of being able to get teamviewer
working yeah uh which is i could you can
usually get them to engage in a video
call
um
i didn't have get on wi-fi so
but their phone they didn't have they
don't have a cell phone
yeah no no this was screwed yeah i i had
to put on a mask and gloves and just go
there
and the stupid thing is that once i got
there it legitimately wasn't simple
because of the browser compatibility
issues they had no other web browser
capable device in the building that was
able to go in and reconfigure the
password for their wi-fi that they had
um that they had forgotten so it's like
okay great
and the ui for that telus combination
wi-fi modem router thing
is so bad so when you change something
and like change something else then
click save the first thing you change
doesn't change apparently you just have
to do one field at a time at least an
arctic fox which is what i was using
right so we're using water fox uh no
arctic fox
oh interesting
yeah it's like specifically for old imax
or something
wow yeah i know right um anyway what
what were we talking about what we're
talking about
i don't know right it's a bad user
experience so obviously that's a bit of
an extreme example but not everyone is
me and if i am frustrated by the out of
the box experience i guarantee you the
average like me when i was you know 15
years old buying my first computer
realizing that i have to go what like
find a friend i didn't have any friends
go find a friend who has a a cpu that's
compatible with my motherboard convince
them to let me rip the cpu out of their
computer and put it in there or like
hope that the store has a has a fast and
convenient policy
yeah right yeah
and now i have to like go and pay for
that or or not i know some places do it
for free it's just it's just not a great
user experience so i i see it from both
sides i see the amd community feeling a
little betrayed but i also see amd
making an earnest effort to maintain
this compatibility even to the detriment
of their user experience and i see why
they might want to clean this up moving
forward that's my take yeah
yeah i i i guess i understand that i
think i'm definitely
not more on the side of the amd
community feeling betrayed because like
if they kept this going it would just
get worse and worse yes and like i don't
that's not that's not a good solution
yep and you're i think you're like a lot
of people where by the time you upgrade
your cpu
hey it's probably time to upgrade like
when you upgrade your system you're
rocking a 5960x if i recall correctly is
that right yeah yeah so yeah it's you
know eight cores of a has well ain't
that fast these days not at those clock
speeds um by the time you're upgrading
your cpu you know what hey you might
also want some new high speed actually
you might want some new higher bandwidth
usb ports
yeah
yeah so we had an issue right before the
call why don't you explain what happened
i uh i i've been plugging it so i use a
camcorder for this now because yay
upgrades uh and i've been plugging my
avio 4k capture card into the same usb
plug every time and it's been working
every time but i changed how i had my vr
setup done
and i moved where it was plugged in via
usb so that controller had more
bandwidth going through it so the camera
would just like stop working constantly
yeah it took me a while to turn it up
and i just needed to plug it in
somewhere else and it solved all the
problems immediately yeah um so yeah no
that would be great i i'm probably
waiting
for
rise in third gen to be cheap in the
linus linus media group store
after 4th gen comes out that's what i
would expect you to do
pretty much yeah you're probably going
to go you're probably going to go 3 900
x you know like not full baller tier
because i don't think you need 16 cores
no you don't want to pay an extra like
you know 300 for that or whatever yep
see i'm on to you and i know what you're
about yeah yeah what do you think i'm
planning on graphics side oh graphic
side well you're definitely not going
sli again i know that for a fact not a
chance that has been such a bad
experience for you um
you know what i think the timing is
going to be really good
for like
the the rumors are already starting to
swirl around an upcoming rtx refresh
i think that nvidia is very unlikely to
make dramatic changes to the end bank
encoder which i think is the only reason
that you could be persuaded to go
rtx 3000 series so my guess is you're
gonna try and sweet talk me into a 2080
ti for a song
right when
our tx 3000 series launches that's
that's your move that's guys he nailed
it
[Laughter]
yeah yeah that's it that was it
i'm really excited for for upgrading to
the new nvinc encoding stuff on the 2000
series and rtx voice looks awesome yeah
and that sounds great yeah yeah all
right yeah i know i know
i know luke uh why don't we talk about
apple's new macbook uh this is actually
this is pretty good news so apple
launches a new 13-inch macbook pro we've
got it on order it's featuring intel's
ice lake cpus and the new old
scissor scissor style keyboard
externally not much has changed but it's
a bit thicker and 30 grams heavier apple
for better no not because they're
actually listening but maybe it's by
accident apple seems to be listening to
me more than not listening to me over
the last couple of years
like they have done a lot of stuff that
has annoyed me but they've also done a
lot of stuff that i think is super cool
over the last few years including uh 10
gigabit networking on the mac mini
that's sick so the fact that every
desktop mac now features 10 gig
networking at least as an option oh wait
no i don't think the imac does the imac
pro the mac pro and the
um and the mac mini though are all at
least have 10 gig networking as an
option
um their cooling has gotten better
they've improved their keyboard like
dang
you know dang apple
so the new ice lake processor the high
performance version sports a 2.3 gig
base uh 4.1 turbo that is a
quad core if i recall correctly no that
should be a six core
let me just i'm gonna double check so i
don't say anything stupid right you know
that's that is four cpu cores four cores
and these are
um
probably like u-class
yeah so they haven't changed the battery
capacity it's still about 58 watt hours
so these are probably kind of
u-class-ish
um cpus they're using intel iris plus
graphics and uh dang we've gone to
lpddr4x that is going to be a nice
little improvement to system snappiness
also we've got four thunderbolt 3 ports
pretty sweet um so that was already
present on the higher end one that's
present here okay what else is
interesting
rated 10 hours of battery life so the
big upgrades really are that we're going
to ice lake and that we've got
lpddr4x memory that took a long time to
come around i mean
ddr5 is already on the horizon so we
ordered what we think is kind of a
sensible spec here i don't think we took
the top spec cpu and i think we went
with
i think anthony talked me into a one
terabyte drive he was like well boot
camp right and i'm like oh yeah i guess
that's a fair point isn't it you don't
want leicester is going to use it
he wants to talk about it as a use case
and i guess he could have just
talked about it as a user yeah why did i
spend another 200 on a macbook
leave me around for your cheap decisions
um
so the i don't know i
didn't hear you mention this you might
have mentioned this sorry uh the lower
end models have two thunderbolt ports
the higher end models have four uh of
the new ones
yeah oh okay so basically that's the
same as before then well the the lower
end coffee lake models but they're still
new models
oh
why does apple do this
yeah so they're muddying the waters i
see so only the new high-end ones get
ice lake i mean that's
man
intel has had such 10 nanometer
struggles so ice lake is 10 nanometers
oh no that's wrong it's just showing up
weird on this chart oh okay my bad okay
never mind you know what why don't we
just go to apple.com
i don't do this often i'm gonna treat
myself
this is a very expensive website ladies
and gentlemen it is an extremely
expensive website that is true all
right uh new macbook pro 13-inch here we
are
up to 10th generation processors with up
to 80 faster graphics performance wow
that is
that is such a that is such a sideways
swipe at intel right there yep their
10th gen all right and yep up to faster
graphics but they sure ain't faster in
any other meaningful way hey got them
um okay so we got our
wow this is they're by page but this
configuration page is actually terrible
hold on a second i'm gonna screen show
you guys on this for a second i really
do not like this at all
chrome
uh yeah there you go all right there we
go let's here let's pull let's pull this
up here ladies and gentlemen
look at this
what am i even like what am i looking at
i can't i can't click on any of this i
can't
what's the tech specs i think your
screen is not
right
my screen is not right in what sense did
you select one of the models already no
i just clicked text backs 13 inch look
so mac macbook pro
tech
specs
this is like stupid like what does this
correspond to
oh like how sloppy is that these look
like buttons but i can't click them so
it's not the configurator thing though
that's just the random tech specs of
those that range of laptops right but
like
what i hear ya i hear ya for sure
why can't they just say
core i5
whatever
why why do they why do they do this
their own fancy special way they do they
do if you go to like buy it 1.4
gigahertz quad-core 8th generation intel
core i5 comma turbo boost up to 3.9
gigahertz comma with 128 megabytes of ed
ram
how did they manage to make intel's
naming scheme which is already
abominable
even more confusing
configurable to
this
uh okay
eighth generation quad yeah i guess they
just don't use it
it's kind of funny actually in a way wow
all right so the buy page see this is
this is much easier to understand the
buy page is a little better it's still
i mean they still don't say the actual
model name of the processor and stuff
yeah but like it's
the specs are laid out better so there
you go we've got a bunch of new models
but the anything but the top and one is
not really new in any sort of meaningful
sense of the word
because it's still coffee lake and it's
still lp ddr3 so that was the part i was
confused about but i looked it up and
like the this page of macbook pros
choose your new macbook pros goes all
the way back to 2018. right
so like
do they at least have the better
keyboard though
backlit magic keyboard yes so they've at
least got a better keyboard so that's
good
cool all right what else we got for the
lan show today
oh we should talk about our sponsors
sponsors for the win show
all right the lan show today is brought
to you by displayed
what about what else do i need to say
about it there are metal prints that you
hang on your wall but you don't have to
hang them they're magnetic so you put
this like magnet thing on your wall and
then you just slap your display on there
it's super easy to mount you don't need
any power tools and they've got over 800
000 different arts spanning a whole
bunch of different styles and influences
with their easy magnetic mounting oh i
already had that they plant one tree for
every display purchased and this is cool
we even have our very own lineup of
displays so if you head over to
linus tech tips
portraits
you can actually see i'm just going to
go
like that boom look at that
it's that linus guy and that dennis guy
and alex and james and hey look hey
we've got a cartoon of luke we got
cartoon luke in there that's pretty good
yeah that's pretty good
all right but it's just really good this
is this is a little bit more awkward to
do now than it used to be so use offer
code ltt to say 15 at dot gg slash
displayed when
the show is also brought to you by
private internet access you want your
internet access to be private well then
maybe you should get private internet
access numpty all right what's in your
online security toolkit adding a vpn
lets you mask your ip and encrypt
traffic to and from your devices pia is
reliable service with over 3 300 servers
in 30 countries they now feature
wireguard which is pretty sweet and they
have no bandwidth caps so you can
download anything you want using pia and
no one will see what you are downloading
as long as you actually have it enabled
and as long as you use their kill switch
so that nothing can leak out you can
connect up to five devices at once with
a single account with clients for
windows mac os android ios and linux and
you can check them out at lmg dot gg
slash pia when the show is also brought
to you by xsplit
xsplit's vcam allows you to remove and
replace your background without a green
screen it uses ai to automatically know
the difference between you and the
background without any need for
complicated lighting setups or a fancy
camera it'll even work with your webcam
you can customize the background to
anything you want and vcam works with
other xsplit broadcast tools but also
just other tools like slack hangout
skype
and more in fact
this is like the funniest thing to me if
you go on xsplits
why are all of my google searches
in french right now i am i'm finding
this i'm finding this very frustrating
yeah if you go on uh xsplit's website
slash vcam uh works with
they've got uh
logitech capture in there obs they've
got obs right on the page
so it's pretty sick
basically all the things that you're
using right now to like
communicate with your school or your
work if you're working remotely et
cetera if you're streaming all the
software using
they offer 24 7 support and it costs
3.95 usd per month or this is nice
everyone should do this they offer a
lifetime license for 49.95 use offer
code linus tech tips to save 10
i just uh oh yeah so uh at the link in
the video description
um
i like that a lot
i'm not a huge fan of software as a
service we did a video recently about
how upset i was at how much i pay adobe
which really is about ten thousand
dollars a year between all the editors
and the other creative types because
almost everyone in the company uses more
than just one thing in the suite and
once you use more than one
like as soon as you buy two individual
tools it costs nearly as much as the
entire creative suite and obviously
they've structured it that way on
purpose otherwise most people like don't
use adobe prelude for example
and would be happy to just not pay for
it that would be great
um
but anyway i talked about how frustrated
i was paying so much for software as a
service and how i would rather just have
the option if i if i like it exactly the
way it is today and i don't expect it to
change at all to just plonk down my
money one time and i expect it to be a
pretty high fee because that's how that
works um to just own it forever i like
that as an option uh kaino has sort of a
similar approach uh with them you can
pay on an ongoing basis and you get like
kind of a support contract built into
that effectively and then if you stop
paying you still get to keep the
software as it is i think you just don't
get support on it
like yeah that's a good it's a good
compromise because not everybody
wants that
uh xbox series x gameplay reveal was
temporarily taken down amidst backlash
over the lack of gameplay i didn't watch
it tell me about it
actually wild um
this
like
i opened it up and i watched the whole
thing vaguely on a side monitor while i
was doing other stuff and what blew my
mind about it was watching the intro i
was like okay uh they have like world
premiere that looks like someone took
some vague xbox colors for a background
and then word art and just wrote world
premiere yeah so it seems like okay
production quality is not exactly super
high here maybe someone just threw
something together and uploaded it
whatever um and then you get some
interviews in there that are like
really high ups at microsoft
like banking the quarterback that won
the super bowl for introing the new
madden game and it's like wow oh wow
okay um and there's there's a rather
extreme lack of actual gameplay um
the
the length of the video is quite
surprising it's 27 minutes and 44
seconds they have a lot
it's really long okay they have a lot of
games that they
intro um and i would say the majority of
them probably have zero seconds of
included actual gameplay okay um and the
ones that do have any actual gameplay a
lot of them it's kind of questionable of
whether or not it is actual gameplay
because it's very much spliced among
definitely cinematics
so it's not really certain if it's like
a cinematic of gameplay which isn't
really real or right like an in-engine
but pre-rendered
type of cinematic yeah it's really hard
to tell the difference
yes they do have notices
uh before a lot of the games i'm not
sure if it's all of them it might be all
of them uh
that say it's in engine yeah but like it
doesn't really mean anything when it's a
cinematic um
so yeah it's it's completely bs and i'm
honestly surprised it has as many likes
as it does
and i'm assuming it does just from
people that like watched it and ignored
the word gameplay and were like hey
half an hour of trailers that's cool
so they just they watched half an hour
of ads basically
yeah and they like they talk about
assassin's creed valhalla at the
beginning
and then it's the last one that they
show and and the like main host for the
whole thing
it goes like and that's it aha just
kidding there's assassins creed valhalla
like it's very much a setup thing and
then valhalla has
as far as i can tell
zero seconds of gameplay it's just a
trailer wow
really feels like just a trap that's
embarrassing maybe their gameplay has
become extremely cinematic um but i'm
pretty sure it's just you know you'd
think they would have learned from last
time you know remember when they
launched the xbox one and they were like
okay
it's a media hub
and then sony was like
you idiot
the playstation 4 is a game console
yeah mike dropped one console generation
like guys
please take the actual gaming seriously
it just doesn't seem that hard
does it is it
no i and i just skimmed through the
valhalla part again there's no way any
of this is is even attempting a gameplay
it should have been like a
uh
an engine like first look xbox series x
yeah james in engine or something and
like that's cool that's just just
teasing teasing the xbox series x launch
title lineup whatever
and that could have maybe been cool but
they just have to stop being so
disrespectful of people's intelligence
like
then again you know apparently
however 15 000 people couldn't tell or
didn't care
so 19. yeah 19 000 people liked it yeah
more people just liked it than liked it
though yes and i really don't think
you're gaining like
a ton from people watching
a massive amount of trailers i'm sure a
lot of them got skipped through i was
gonna say like a small portion of a
video but i'm sure they just skipped
through to find games they're interested
in i had a really good question in the
twitch chat i actually i can't see who
asked it anymore oh what's that
i just want to show the world premiere
thing um
no it's fine i want to screen capture
this uh oh here it is terrazoidal asks
are you guys going to talk about the
wink smart home hub going paid only uh
this has been causing very very small
waves or big waves in a small community
why don't we say that because it's uh
it's a pretty it's a pretty niche
community but um
wink smart hub
basically it's a it's a product that
helps you manage um multiple ecosystems
of smart products from one
device or from one like controller
and my understanding was that it there
was a free option at least available in
the past
so once you bought the product you were
able to run it for free but they
basically went hey surprise next week uh
and i think the price uh is gonna be
five dollars a month i wanna say
uh here we go introducing wink
subscription so this just uh happened a
couple days ago i've i was sort of
paying attention to this out of the
corner of my eye um yep we are
transitioning to a 499 monthly
subscription on may 13th 2020. so people
got effectively one week of notice this
fee is designed to be as modest as
possible five dollars a month
is not
modest
that's that's like
i i really enjoy this service and i like
really care about it that is 60 a year
um
should you choose not to sign up for a
subscription you will no longer be able
to access your wink devices from the app
with voice control or through the api
and your automations will be disabled on
may 13th
like straight up
we are turning this off your device
connection settings and automations can
be reactivated if you decide to
subscribe at a later date so effectively
anyone who bought it um
has a paperweight now if they don't want
to pay the subscription this is a pretty
this is the kind of bait and switch that
i don't really understand how it doesn't
lead to a lawsuit unless they were
really careful with their terms of
service in the lead-up to this
yeah
honestly i was trying to figure out if
anything other than the banner at the
top that says subscribe now to keep your
service active which is so aggro by the
way when it's all capital and
underscored um yeah
i was i was trying to see if there's
anywhere else on the site that that says
that you have to pay a subscription and
i'm trying to add it to my cart to see
if it tells me that and yeah
i can't oh yeah no add to cart's not
working yeah
interesting
i mean there's been speculation that
these guys have been running out of
money um apparently i actually don't
know if i have notes on here so i'm
talking off the top of my head so i'm
just gonna say uh allegedly allegedly um
allegedly their their staff have not
been paid in some time which is always a
bad sign literally every time that's a
bad sign
um
so i understand why they're doing it i
think that they could have probably you
know
i mean maybe they have no money you know
i was gonna say maybe they could have
hired a pr firm to walk them through
doing this in a way that's a little bit
less confrontational if they had maybe
said hey guys here's the situation
we
um we are out of money so we're
instituting a voluntary subscription to
support our ongoing development
um please subscribe if you care about
wink and you want it to have a future
we're gonna do five bucks a month and
then if three months later six months
later they had said
hey uh there's some features that are no
longer available to our free tier here's
what they are and then six months later
they went hey
yeah you're gonna have to pay if they
had boiled the frog a little bit on this
i think they they could have avoided a
lot of this backlash but as it is now
this is just such a slap in the face but
they may have just been
that desperate it's hard to say unless
you're you're a fly on the wall for
these conversations
so it looks like uh i'm assuming you
can't add anything to cart until you
like create an account
and it also looks like
on the create an account page they make
it
pretty clear now
no long term commitments except that you
like bought this device see i find it so
offensive when companies try to double
dip right like i remember buying a drop
cam and realizing that i just paid two
hundred dollars for a device that i then
had to pay a monthly subscription for
no
just know
bake it into the subscription
or
charge me a premium for your shiny
device
those are
does that mean that you would prefer
minimum
uh terms then because like if they're
going to bake it into the subscription
they're going to have to have you
subscribe for a minimum amount of time
sure then you're still going to be
paying the 200 it's just on like a
payment plan basically that's fair but
then i think that there's probably some
there's probably some some
some economic modeling that can be done
to go okay well instead of dollars the
drop cam could be 30 bucks which is
below our cost of
42.61 but most people will probably
subscribe for at least a couple months
there's a middle ground then but by that
when you pay 200 for that stupid thing
which is you know basically what like a
pie zero and a cheap camera on it like
let's get real here for a minute that's
new yeah they're making money off the
device and the subscription exactly
exactly
yep makes sense can't really argue
against that too much i don't think
uh i just i
basically just wouldn't want to be in a
situation where like if i actually liked
the product and they increased the
monthly to make it so that i covered the
cost of the device
uh i wouldn't want to have to keep
paying that monthly for
way past when i would have paid for the
device right
says says a good way to do it is the 200
includes x number of months for free my
problem with that is they usually cheap
out on it
like they give it to you for like three
months or something yeah and that's that
i find that really i find that really
frustrating
yeah
they could even do a thing where like
you have to put in your credit card
first uh but then it gives you like a
year for free yeah or something yep a
year or like a couple years like if this
thing is good enough that i'm in it for
the long haul here then
put your money where your mouth is right
yeah
especially when you factor in how little
some of these services cost like with uh
with the drop cam in particular which is
now nest cam
uh the paid subscription didn't even
have like perpetual data storage or
anything like i wasn't paying for cloud
storage it was it was like temporary
storage it was just like how much of it
it's like this is so little bandwidth
that you guys are
basically just milking it at this point
yeah
uh what else we got to discuss today
microsoft confirms that windows 10 x
will be coming to laptops so that's the
dual screen tablet style edition of
windows that was originally designed for
highly mobile devices apparently we'll
be making its first appearance on single
screen devices so this is a quote with
windows 10x we designed for flexibility
and that flexibility has enabled us to
pivot our focus towards single screen so
it's like okay anthony previously looked
at windows 10 x the beta of it on short
circuit where he saw what he considered
a very windows 8 like ui complete with
full screen apps
and relegating native windows 32 apps to
running in special containers in order
to focus on uwp apps microsoft claims
this is to improve power efficiency and
he expressed a concern that it may end
up on more consumer devices than just
special purpose ones and it seems like
this is happening good job anthony
except that you cheated and you used
another video that you shot as a wan
show topic again way to go anthony
you know that's what my uncle always
says though you know you've got to
leverage your work leverage leverage
leverage don't do work twice when you
can do work once and leverage it twice
i'm like okay thank you thank you uncle
skip i appreciate that
there's an event going on on the forum
right now the ltte forum
pentathlon so we've talked about folding
at home and the amazing things that the
ltd folding at home team has been doing
and this won't even fully disrupt that
this is still using your compute power
to help the world um but this one is
very cpu focused uh so
they want you to set up boink to run
rosetta at home
which is doing covid compute research
and is the marathon event rosetta is cpu
only however so if you set up your boink
to do cpu work for rosetta at home and
help covet stuff you can keep running
folding at home on your gpu and continue
to do
uh covert research in that way so just
uh make sure you join linus tech tips
underscore team during the account
creation and completion process and it's
probably also a good idea to change the
computing preferences on the project
website to about 75 cpus or two thread
leave two threads free so your
computer's still like usable point can
also pause automatically if you fire up
something demanding like a game and then
it can resume again when the computer's
idle
one other very important piece of um
linus tech tips related news that we do
have to go through this week is that ltx
2020 is officially
um on ice it's it's out it's done um we
do technically still have a venue like
like booked uh but we will not be able
to do
any kind of event with the sort of scale
that we had anticipated this year um i i
kind of screwed up this whole thing um
speaking of you know needing pr classes
you know i was talking about wink there
um
i should have just accepted much earlier
on that this was going to happen and
just canceled it you know months ago
like we were still making announcements
when other people were canceling their
events and i guess that was just
my inexperience and also my
hope
that we you know
some
kind of it would turn out to not be as
bad as we thought it was or the lockdown
restrictions wouldn't be so
pervasive or whatever i just i kind of i
hoped something good would happen
it didn't and ltx 2020 is not going to
be able to proceed the way that we hoped
we would we still want to do something
some kind of fun community engagement
slash creator collab
thing it just it won't be that um and
all i can say now is you know sorry guys
we really tried i really really wanted
to do it this was the year that
not only was ltx gonna like really glow
up but we might have even made money on
it this year we had a lot of really
generous sponsors reach out and say hey
you guys have like really
created something special here and we
want to support it uh we've lost money
on it every year um so this was like the
year that it was going to be like
big time ltx is a real event now i was
so
excited and now i am bummed um
i have i have some ideas by the way
uh good we do very cool and fun things
that maybe i can hopefully contribute
that would be that would be freaking
awesome
because we really want to kind of
salvage whatever we can out of it
yeah
ah now i'm like bummed
uh okay in other news nintendo wii
source code and design documents were
leaked on 4chan of all places after an
attack on hosting provider broad on
hackers have released a massive dump of
technical information about the nintendo
wii it includes source code what for the
black box uh boot zero boot one and boot
two roms uh documents describing feature
planning and implementation apis
internal software the full os sdk and
source code source code and info on
manufacturing and publishing systems and
more ladies and gentlemen we got him
what it's been reported that source code
for the n64 and gamecube along with
debug builds and source code for legacy
pokemon games and much much more is also
in there um nintendo is presumably
itching to unleash their lawyers on
anyone who's so much as hints at using
any of this information so projects like
dolphin emulator for example are not
likely to see much benefit from it but
it's possible that bug fixes for edge
cases may find their way in eventually
as people become familiar with these
documents and code it is an open source
project after all
yeah
so they they could like
you know not use the exact source code
but they could learn from it basically
exactly exactly dang nintendo that kind
of blows
i mean it's good for like the home brew
and hacker community i guess but uh
yeah not great uh not great for you
what else we got here
um
[Music]
starting to run slightly thin yeah it's
starting to run a little bit then
microsoft announced a bunch of surface
stuff so surface go too has thinner
screen and bigger thinner bezels and a
bigger screen
um still a little on the chunky side
core m3 cpu's apparently 64 faster than
the old one but like that was really
slow uh now has the studio mic that the
pro series has and it's got wi-fi six
hey take that macbook air there's also
an lte model that's pretty sick no
pricing but probably going to start
around 500 bucks surface book 3 is
basically a surface book 2 with better
internals 10th gen and gtx 1650 max q or
uh
wow 1660ti max secure quadro rtx
3000 in the 15 inch model wow 1650 max q
and 13 inch okay that's pretty cool
screen uh releases two times faster from
the base and it's got dolby atmos and
the surface headphones too are now in
black ooh
sexy
and they've also got surface earbuds
this is kind of a big deal um
sorry yeah it's a big deal and they're
also kind of big it's a big deal in a
couple ways the big surface allows
gestures though so they could be really
cool for controlling your audio or they
could just be a pain in the butt when
you go and scratch your ear only time
shall tell no noise cancelling 200 us
dollars
more uh fantastic vpn news yeah
there's always great vpn news on wan
show yeah crucial vulnerabilities in
prominent vpn services private vpn and
betternet yes it's not someone we're
promoting this time
have been discovered that could have
allowed complete control over a computer
running their clients via a rogue
software update well both vpn companies
appear to have patched the issue neither
made an announcement to affect the users
bad form
people that is not how that's supposed
to work
this came as part of a larger test of 20
vpn service providers including heavy
hitters like nordvpn expressvpn and pia
fourteen of the vpn services had no
issues while six
uh allowed intercepting client server
communications although betternet and
privatevpn connected to the proof of
concept attack server and downloaded the
software ouch
yeah big yikes so i guess we're not
completely clear here betternet did not
automatically install the malicious
update
but private vpn did
while most users at home won't ever see
such a hijack that's probably quite true
the threat of man in the middle attacks
like these in uh public situations using
untrusted access points
the old school cafe attacks uh hotels
airports and whatnot uh is ironically
one of the main selling points of vpns
and is
making you quite vulnerable with that
solution yeah bummer
not fun finally super mario 64 was
ported to the pc it has a native port on
pc complete with widescreen and high
resolution graphics of course this isn't
a nintendo initiative and is likely to
be shut down oh there's a link already
done uh
so that happened today at 2 30 p.m so
about four hours ago
it was made with data gathered from the
fan run super mario 64 decompilation
project a project with the goal of
decompiling super mario 64 in order to
understand and document the game's code
this means that the individual or team
doing the port had to translate the n64
specific instructions to something that
would run on a pc unit using modern
graphics libraries like opengl and
direct 3d as a result it may be possible
to run the game on much lower end
hardware as there is no emulation taking
place
wow i like seriously need to get my
hands on this before it's impossible to
find
yeah
i mean i don't know i'm down to just go
buy the buy i mean we talked about this
last week as far as i'm concerned if i
go buy the
cartridge then i can play this
guilt-free like it's not like
nintendo did any work on this project
that is so cool
apparently they ported it to the switch
too
wow
man so i went from pc all the way back
down to switch i love neckbeards i
really do
they are the best because they make my
life so much better
thank you neckbeards and i'm not i'm not
generalizing i'm just saying that
there are definitely people who worked
on this project who have a neckbeard
that's all i'm saying
wait that's a generalization crap caught
again
fell into my own crap
totally he totally kept digging when he
should have stopped
yeah i'm sure this will be findable
online uh it seems like most of the
links are dead right now but oh yeah
sure they will they will continue to
circulate yeah i'm sure nintendo's super
happy about this one
yeah
all right maybe it's cool i i don't
remember what it's called but maybe this
will do that thing where when you try to
hide it on the internet it's just nice
yeah there we go yeah
all right we've got to do a couple super
chats here ladies and gentlemen metal
gappy says sorry to hear about ltx i was
hoping bc would be able to squeak by but
no such luck here's hoping for a better
year next year i truly also hope for a
better luck next time situation robert
mayhill says donation three of waiting
for short circuit t-shirts we're not i
told you we don't even have any planned
i said it explicitly last week why do
you keep spending money to to tell me
you're waiting for something that isn't
coming we're working on a long sleeve
robert we are working on a long sleeve
keep pushing it'll work
i believe
you don't you know fully well i i i
don't lie on this show i'm not like yeah
we're not working on this oh surprise
here it is like
no just just keep throwing money at him
it will happen
dj he says how do you feel about the
roast since some time has passed since
it happened
how do you feel about the roast
me yeah and can you lean a little bit to
your right
i got a name too we're both not centered
anymore
experience i thought it was really good
oh yeah i had a blast it was fun from
the the floatplane side of things we we
learned a lot and developed really cool
things for it
um
and it was it was the event itself was
super fun
totally i had a blast i don't think it
necessarily like
made the most sense
um oh no we lost money
yeah i doubt you guys would end up doing
another one but it was really fun to do
yeah no we wouldn't
no it was a lot to coordinate it was a
total blast it was a once-in-a-lifetime
thing and
that's it but no regrets whatsoever
no yeah it was great
uh
okay what else we got here i'm not gonna
do too many today because we we started
the show so late but epic stuff for you
says been watching you for years figured
maybe i should send you some dollar
raise for all the great content well
thank you very much that truly is some
epic stuff it's a hundred of whatever
chfs are
i really wish that i told youtube this
like a year ago i was like hey it's
really cool that you show all the
different currencies that people donate
in because like it makes you feel like
you know you're part of this like global
community right
but i would really like to be able to
mouse over and know how much it is and
like freedom dollars or whatever
randande31 says hello from south
australia just curious how much youtube
premium pays versus normal ad views and
do youtubers still get paid for premium
viewers on demonetized content wow that
is a fantastic question that last bit i
have no idea but i am
i am very curious to know the answer to
the point where i am going to just fire
over an email to the uh the bat phone
that i have
here
uh do you get paid for youtube
premium views
on demonetized
content
or does it just affect
adsense
it's really interesting yeah i i have no
idea that's such a great question we
don't really deal with it that much so
it hasn't been a major concern for me i
feel like you should because they're
technically completely disconnected
systems yeah they're just paying viewers
right yeah
so it shouldn't matter
but i also wouldn't be surprised if you
don't
lie nus says oh wait sorry to answer
your question rand andy uh
way more way more a youtube premium
viewer is worth like an order of
magnitude more than uh like an ad
supported viewer in terms of money
the the i don't mean worth you guys are
all worth a lot to me but in terms of
money uh they contribute far more to our
bottom line uh lioness says will the og
floatplane subscription get a yearly
version
do we have any plans to do that
uh do you
i don't know can we even do that because
i thought there was a whole like
migration issue that we had that was why
we just uh
like grandfathered that plan in as like
a weird hidden plan or something
yes so we definitely did that um as far
as i know you could enable a yearly
option
yeah i think we just don't have an easy
way to lock people
lock out who can subscribe to it
because we would only want people who
are og subscribers after three dollars a
month to be able to get it
okay so i see what you mean by that i
think we could still do that
i wouldn't necessarily recommend giving
them a further discount
uh because i don't think there's a
yeah it just would be more efficient
from a billing standpoint yes
uh lighter and better
for people paying in foreign currencies
so there's there's benefits to it
um
if if you can't just do it in the
dashboard right now i can talk to
mr hyuki about it i don't think that
would be super hard to do yeah it's just
a matter of like people would have to
voluntarily change over their thing and
if there's anything we've learned from
migrations in the past this is people
are like cannot be asked
yeah um the moo master z says your adobe
video shows the value of software as a
service for linus media group are you
not worried that if a tool is
discontinued or a company closes you'll
potentially lose access to old content
i'm morally against software as a
service absolutely i'm worried about it
i hate it
it's just that i'm running a business
here and unfortunately
it's that's the the best evil
um
yeah i don't i don't have a better
solution right now
uh alex wojjoltski says my girlfriend
says you look like a daddy with that
beard except i don't have a girlfriend
and i said that keep up all that you do
[Laughter]
okay thank you for that
a random person lioness you inspired me
to build a pc and get into technology
uh don gordon first time on the live
stream welcome
uh k bastian says when will the sandals
be available in the store i've been
waiting since august 9 2019 no time soon
i have not gotten any
samples from factories that have been
anywhere near
the standard that i would want it to be
up to so we're we're not there
keep sending super chats it'll happen
it doesn't work that way man if any of
you have any requests for merge things
just fire away on the super chats
it'll it it just it it fuels the machine
it just keeps things moving
no it doesn't
i had a non-super chat just a chat that
i happen to notice as it was scrolling
by asking what's going on with the
pewdiepie pc so i have not been in
direct contact with felix i don't know
him and i don't think as far as i know i
don't think he has really any desire to
like
um
engage more
with like the youtuber community and
collabs and stuff it seems like he kind
of stopped doing that a while back
um at least that's sort of what my very
distant observation has told me um so i
don't know what he is or isn't doing
with it i did offer to cover taking it
to a local shop to have the motherboard
swapped out
but i don't know if he's going to do it
i don't know if his sponsorships with
whoever provides his pcs even allows him
to use it we just
you know we built it as a lark we we
wanted it to be a great machine and we
wanted it to be the reason we built it
well was we wanted it to be good enough
that he could use it if he really wanted
to but i i honestly was not really
expecting him to daily drive it
like apparently it would have been
awesome
but
yeah go ahead
apparently sive has a video that talks
about it more
oh okay that makes sense
sive was very helpful for getting the
whole thing done
yeah
um
and then we're going to unbox he is
a meme
lord
it's fantastic yes he is
yeah like it's
ridiculous
the guy is like a walking living meme
i just don't even understand it
what video does he have i actually the
the latest video on his channel is from
like a month ago too old yeah someone
mentioned in twitch chat that he does
but i was like i didn't see it i'm not
sure maybe it's
on twitter or something yeah it could be
nice i don't know we'll see we'll see i
mean i would be so thrilled if he
actually used it but i just i know from
being an influencer and i realize this
is a very first world problem and
nobody's going to feel bad for me but
people kind of send you too much
unsolicited crap
and sometimes it can actually just be a
burden because you're like what am i
gonna do with this thing like how many
you know uh a perfect example is like
phone cases how many phone cases can one
man put on his phone
the answer is one you know like i
there's just a limit right
uh yeah nick
plumax says lioness have you showered
today i have not showered in like three
days look how greasy my hair is i need
to go have a shower it's gross
and on that note i might do that right
now thank you guys for tuning in to the
wan show we will see you again next week
same bat time same bat channel
bye go dislike the microsoft video ouch
ouch why you gotta be like that
why you gotta be like that luke i don't
even interact with youtube videos that
often you know
i dislike that one
um
hold on a second hold on i gotta check
something real quick here i just gotta i
gotta check something for you real quick
uh
you know all right hold on i just need
to i need to see if there's anyone that
we need to like uh go in what's it
called when you when you dump all your
viewers on someone
raid raid yeah nobody's on caltane's not
live
luke laffer's not live that guy's such
an idiot i can't stand it what a loser
this place like crap games like crap
nerd plays the club
games leafy are you around have you done
your attic stuff 20 times not
i actually game for you you kind of
missed me i didn't even think to message
you i gained for like five hours
yesterday
i was playing
i was playing single player anno it was
the lamest thing ever
like uh from like an engagement with
engaging with a friend standpoint but
yeah i'm totally i'm totally down i'm
down to play some games i was i was up
till four i was so irresponsible last
night
you could you could raid yourself then i
could raid myself no i just won this
channel so
yeah yeah but you have to stop this
stream so if you just stop the stream
and start it again it's kind of like
raiding yourself oh i need some dinner
first i like hard corny dinner first i
got to put my kids in bed no i do i have
responses
i'm not a successful twitch streamer
neither are you you're the last person
who should be giving advice on being a
successful twitch streamer
jeez
better than me
she straight up is isn't she
yeah yeah plenty time like she's like
making more money on twitch than you
ever have isn't she i bet you
not ever well yeah but it doesn't count
when you're like hey guys um
so
um i need a i need a valve index and i
really
um can't i don't want to buy one for
myself because i have a mortgage now and
it's true um you know i'm running a
startup so if you guys could just kind
of you know cheer me enough that would
that would cheer me up then i would be
able to get one
i'm not gonna do anything if you if you
cheer i'm just gonna casually say thanks
and probably ignore you but thanks every
time every time people cheer they don't
do it very often and usually i don't
look at the chat at all because i'm
playing beat saber which makes it very
difficult to look at the chat or i'm
playing anno and i get like focused i
get focused when i play anima i like
barely looking
so half the time people cheer i don't
recognize what's going on in the ui and
i'm like sorry what is that what is this
oh oh cheering what is cheery again i i
know what it is now it's like bits or
something right
yeah there's bits
you cheer with bits
yeah i uh twitch adds so much junk all
the time that i never know what's going
on anyways i'm still i think my last
stream i just finally figured out what a
hype train even is and now that i even
know what it is i don't understand
i have not even tried to figure out what
that one is yeah i think you're supposed
to like make people keep cheering more
and more and more
like it's all just like these these
horrible like
like casino level
gambling mechanisms i just it kind of
makes me feel icky
quite honestly and like i shamelessly
monetize like i shamelessly monetize
everything i do i'm monetizing right now
i'm taking super chats i'm taking twitch
contributions and like prime subs i'm
taking corporate sponsors i took three
corporate sponsors for this show i am a
monetization machine
and i look at hype train i'm like
really big
[Laughter]
and like if you set it up so that
there's like there's the okay so i could
get some of this wrong because i still
don't really care yeah um
not a good streamer but uh if you like
push it to the next milestone or
whatever yeah everyone in the chat
unlocks i think everyone in the chat
maybe just people that contributed i
don't know um they unlock permanent
emotes that are like hype train themed
so like they try to make it fun
and they give you direct rewards and
they're like everyone give them money
now and give the money in ways that
twitch can siphon part of it off but the
things that they gave you are just
pixels
they're just pixels i don't know every i
feel like everything we charge for has a
value the only things that we take money
from our viewers for our content the
content you are directly supporting the
content through early access on
floatplane.com or you are buying merch
but there's also like higher quality to
that and stuff yes exactly
higher quality well there's a high
there's a better community over there as
well like the comment section i find
myself reading my float plane comments
at the beginning of the day and then
i'll like look at my youtube comments
for that day's video later like
floatplane comments are awesome
um
we actually talked today about after we
released the the new
big update that's still it's still a bit
out but it's coming which is text
picture and audio posts i think this is
the first time that i've talked about it
a super power brown wan show it's not
it's not that close don't freak out but
it is it is coming it's been worked on
for a while um after that comes out
something that we're talking about i
don't know if it's gonna happen at all
or when it will happen if it does happen
uh but like kind of a revamp to the
comment section because something we've
been discussing like
um
right now our comments are more similar
to other websites that have comments not
like a forum and we know that the
comment section on floatplane
ubiquitously across all creators is a
better experience than the comment
section on something like youtube
so it might be better for us to give a
more rich commenting experience
that is more similar to something like
the line of tech tips forum
than a traditional like youtube comments
section
where you can have
better more thorough interaction with
each other uh more tools all that kind
of stuff cool just an idea
don't know a lot of people have
mentioned that they prefer
conversing with each other on the forum
versus the comments on flow plane yeah
and that's just made the wheels turn
that would be very far down the line if
it happens but yeah i actually had
someone offer to buy the forum um last
week
what i told them to go take a hike
uh they were basically like yeah like uh
i i i basically was talking about i was
like yeah it's worthless to me and
they're like what and i'm like yeah yeah
it's we don't want to we don't make any
money on it and they're like oh well
like do you want to sell it like no and
they're like but you don't make any
money on it i'm like yeah
and they're like well why i mean we
could make money on it i'm like yeah but
then the site would suck
yeah my linus tech tips forum was
created because i wanted a tech forum
that i could go to and enjoy
that's like the main reason
made like no money
uh we made the forum and it made no
money yeah because and we committed to
basically it making no money when we
made no money because we were like this
just makes more sense yeah well i it was
created because like
so our our code of conduct was created
by me and luke mostly luke but i i
guided sort of what i wanted it to be it
had my name on the site so it was really
important to me that the spirit of the
community was something that i could get
behind and so our code of conduct is
basically don't be a dick
and be excellent to each other okay
those are those are the main guiding
principles of the linus tech tips forum
because i was so sick of
it being either this extreme
where you've got super techie forums
where people are disrespectful to anyone
who would have the audacity to ask a
newbie question and then you've got
these super basic forums where people
just kind of don't really know what
they're talking about i wanted something
in between i wanted knowledgeable people
who were committed to actually being
welcoming to new members
and
uh it was also okay so the other half of
it was that it was our backup plan in
case youtube went down we needed some
way to
to own our audience and have some way to
reach them if there were if all of a
sudden we weren't on youtube anymore and
you needed to access it somewhere else
so it was it was a way to hold on to our
community and to have a tech forum that
like i don't go to almost any other tech
forum now
i just
go line to techtips.com whatever's in
the news or like whatever's in the
discussion over there it's like it's
basically all i need to know
so it's great
love it
um so i if for no reason other than that
my intention would be to leave linus
tech tips and calling it independent
isn't quite right because it's owned
wholly owned by linus media group
incorporated it's not really like
independent in that sense it's not like
community owned or anything like that
but i am the definition of a hands-off
owner
when it comes to lenders techtips.com i
actually didn't even look at the
analytics for almost two years once
[Laughter]
that was when i messaged you i was like
hey luke did you know the forum's still
growing and you're like oh yeah and i'm
like yeah well i didn't
because like we don't put any ads on it
really like it's got like you know a
link to display or whatever or like a
sidebar with the latest linus media
group videos like amazon affiliate link
here and there but it is mostly funded
by the bronze silver and gold
contributors who we were totally upfront
with right from the start get absolutely
nothing for their contributions
no they they get ads removed which
they're almost none of yeah yeah yeah
to the bronze silver and gold sections
where basically nothing happens
except there is one thread in the bronze
section it's like a counting thread or
something they're they're trying to
count to 10 000 with images that have
that number highly related to it in some
way
yeah it
yep it's just it's just random it's a
really cool place and i i told those
guys that i basically it was really
funny because i spent like probably five
minutes explaining what's so valuable
about linustechtips.com
and
i said explicitly at one point they must
not have heard me that it was like
absolutely not for sale like i would not
part it out or something or whatever
they were asking um and then at the end
of it they were like oh okay so then
like
um you know you would part it out i'm
no
they just heard it make money and
they're like oh
yeah yeah oh but we could put all these
like automatically playing video ads on
it like no part of what's great about
linus media group is that it has things
that don't have to make money like ltx
for the first three years
it's just it's just funded by the by the
sponsors and by the super chats and by
all the other things that we do on the
youtube content so many people ask me
they're like uh they're like hey uh you
know what else does linus media group do
nothing we just make videos and then do
stuff that we think is cool and my kids
clearly need me to go pay attention to
them now so thank you guys for tuning in
we'll see you again next week
bye
[Music]
hey brats
all right so i'm ending the youtube
stream now
oh well hold on a second is that a did
someone just send a 100 chf
super chat i don't know what this is
i've been watching you for years
figuring oh no we already did that one
okay ending stream